# Shortbreaks Web Update, December 2015
## Platform
### Advanced analytics
Sam and Emily have been adding [enhanced ecommerce](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/analyticsjs/enhanced-ecommerce) tracking to ATG, going forward we should have a better understanding of how customers interact with our products to help make UI decisions easier. It allows us to analyse what the customers have seen including where the product was positioned on the page. We can then see what has been added to the basket and purchased in far more detail than we ever could with event tracking. It should provide us with more insight into customer's journies through the website.

### Opera rate plan codes and commissions
As part of the additional rooms we're making available for Alton Towers, Rojo has reorganised the opera rate plan code implementation in Revolver. It has grown fairly organically since we started to manage what rates we do and don't expose to our customers from Opera. We've now centralized the default rates and the custom (ticket bucket based) overrides into a single config file and rearranged how we request availability from Opera so it's a lot more watertight now.

### "Flow" javascript pattern
Phil has been working on a javascript pattern for creating easy to read, decoupled, promise based unit testable code, something we don't have in large parts of our systems. It's taken a few iterations but we're starting to get some good unit test coverage in places like The Works controllers and Revolver where traditionally we haven't been able to achieve that.  This pattern is also going to drive code reuse and really push us to think smarter about how we construct and organise our code.  Here's a couple of examples:
https://github.com/holidayextras/the-works/blob/staging/flows/firm.js
https://github.com/holidayextras/revolver/blob/useRequest/libs/utils/requestConnector.js

We'll be running a few "show and tells" in the new year so we can start to migrate code and get our test coverage up and eventually remove “runners”!

### Transformer proliferation
We've got a lot of config in Revolver that can't currently sit in Transformer due to the way it (Revolver) has been architected and this is costing our business many man hours throughout the season.  That's all about to change with [FEA-759](https://hxshortbreaks.atlassian.net/browse/FEA-759).  Marc's been understanding what are the highest priority configs (things we make the most changes too) and what in the codebase we need to change to allow Transformer to take control of them.  The main problem is the synchronous nature of Revolvers' engine, once we get that changed things become a lot more straightforward and we can move a lot of the config changes to Cloudant.  These will only be editable by the web team through the Cloudant interface until we come up with a GUI.

## Infrastructure

### VPC move
Marc and Rojo have been working closely with IT to move all infrastructure to our [VPC](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/11961353/should-i-use-amazons-aws-virtual-private-cloud-vpc).  Currently a lot of our services are exposed on the internet, this move gives us much greater control of what is and isn't available to the average internetter and gives us an incredible amount of extra security, flexibility and agility when dealing with things like [DDoS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Denial-of-service_attack) attacks.  VPC is now the default account setting for any new AWS accounts such is it's value.  For more info you can join the #vpc_move Slack channel.  This will be happening now in early 2016.

### AWS OpsWorks Update
Over the Christmas break Amazon decided to update the OpsWorks platform to allow the specification of different versions of the OpsWorks agent. This update effected both **Revolver** and **The Works**, stopping us form deploying either system to production.

Well done to Phil for diagnosing this one and finding how to specify the version we use.

This is another example of why we want to migrate away from OpsWorks and get full control on our infrastructure.

### Monitoring
We've now got full monitoring on **Revolver**, **The Works** and **The Wall** in [Pingdom](https://www.pingdom.com/), as well as all of the individual Opera servers.

#### Uptimes

|CHECK NAME|UPTIME|DOWNTIME|RESPONSE TIME|  
|-|-|-|-|
|HXML (Legoland Holidays Availability Page)|99.88%|53m|2,268 ms|
|HXML (Show and Stay Availability Page)|100%|1m|561 ms|
|HXSEO (Legoland Holidays Homepage)|100%|N/A|513 ms|
|HXSEO (Show and Stay Homepage)|100%|1m|694 ms|
|New Stack Availability (ATG)|99.49%|3h 46m|1,773 ms|
|New Stack Availability (Paultons)|99.46%|4h 1m|1,849 ms|
|Opera Server (Alton)|99.16%|6h 16m|1,001 ms|
|Opera Server (Chessington)|93.95%|1d 21h 2m|745 ms|
|Opera Server (Legoland)|99.83%|1h 14m|679 ms|
|Opera Server (Thorpe)|99.29%|5h 17m|796 ms|
|Revolver|99.89%|35m|290 ms|
|The Wall|99.98%|8m|273 ms|
|The Works|99.92%|26m|448 ms|

##### Summary
We've had a few outages across the board this month related to both the VPC move in distribution and network infrastructure changes the Gary Savill has been working on.  
Our long term resolution to this is to stop routing everything via the Datacenter, so that the only thing we would lose is the connectivity to Chips. We just need to get our AWS elastic IPs whitelisted with the Oracle datacenter (This will now be chased again). The reason this is now a real possibility is the introduction of [NAT as a Service](https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/whats-new/2015/12/introducing-amazon-vpc-nat-gateway-a-managed-nat-service/). This will also reduce the number of hops taken for each request and give us greater control moving forward.

We all remember the great Chessington outage of 2015 (as can been seen above), but the biggest concern for us are the **New Stack Availability** outages. The minimum uptime we should be delivering is a consistent **99.97%** and we have jiras in place to give us full metrics in production for both **The Works** and **Revolver** and this will enable us to debug issues with greater visibility.

#### Response Times

|Theme Availability|Theme Extras|Theme Payment|Theatre Shows|Theatre Dates|Theatre Seats|Theatre Hotels|Theatre Product|Theatre Payment|
|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|-|
|Max|2,730 ms|N/A|5,545 ms|3,328 ms|22,980 ms|11,760 ms|17,960 ms|10,510 ms|5,545 ms
|Average|1,166 ms|N/A|527 ms|1,229 ms|436 ms|2,920 ms|4,130 ms|467 ms|527 ms

##### Summary
You can see we have a number of response times that are too high, however the averages only show 2 of high concern.
Again, this requires metrics across the stack for us to be able to pinpoint where the issue lies to then start to improve on these figures.
